This is the README file for the examples distribution of EDB, a database
program for GNU Emacs written by Michael Ernst <mernst@theory.lcs.mit.edu>.
EDB is available via anonymous ftp from theory.lcs.mit.edu:/pub/emacs/edb/.
The examples distribution is in theory.lcs.mit.edu:/pub/emacs/edb/examples.

The following files are available; see the documentation for file naming
conventions.

README		This file.  This is not EDB's README file, only that for its
		examples.

forms-demo2.dat		The database supplied as "demo2" of the Forms package.
forms-demo2.fmt
forms-demo2.report

forms-demo2-int.dat	The same database in EDB internal layout.

arb-demo	An example database in "arbitrary" format; it uses functions
arb-demo.dba	rather than rules to read and write the disk file.  It also
arb-demo.fmt	uses an alternate format file.
arb-demo.home-fmt

arb-demo-regexp		The same database as that above, but with its layout
arb-demo-regexp.dba	specified by a set of regular expressions.

eicsw.dat	Alan Stebbens's EIC software database, which uses enumerated
eicsw.fmt	types and the date type.
eicsw.dba

passwd.fmt	A format file for use with /etc/passwd; do db-find-file on
		/etc/passwd and specify this file as the format file.

tepdb		Michael Ernst's address database in internal file layout;
tepdb.fmt	includes change functions, aging of data, reports, mailing
tepdb.dba	labels, and usage instructions.
tepdb.instr

rolo-jik.dat	Jonathan Kamens's rolodex database; includes user-definable
rolo-jik.fmt	fields and dynamic data display buffer alignment.
rolo-jik.dba
rolo-jik.doc

intro-and-addr	Bob Chassell's introduction to EDB for the complete novice,
		plus an address database and code for producing mailing labels.

btxdb		Instructions for retrieving Thorsten Ohl's BibTeX database.

edbibtex.shar	Michael Burschik's BibTeX database and sample format files.
		Includes documentation, example databases, and more.

geneal		Instructions for retrieving Michael Patton's geneal database,
		which includes inter-record links and tagged file layout.


More examples are needed!  Please help future users by contributing your
databases; contact Michael Ernst <mernst@theory.lcs.mit.edu> to have them
included.
