The files in this directory are not (yet) part of the Gnus
distribution proper.  They may later become part of the distribution,
or they may disappear altogether.

Please note that it is not good to just add this directory to
load-path: a number of files in this directory will become part of
more recent Emacs versions, so that you might be running obsolete
libraries with all kinds of ill effects.

The suggested method for installation is to copy those files that you
need to a directory which is in load-path.

Here is an overview of the files:

base64.el

        As of Emacs 21, base64 encoding and decoding is available
        natively.  So this file appears to be needed for Emacs 20
        only.

gpg-ring.el
gpg.el

hashcash.el

md5.el

	MD5 encoding is part of Emacs as of Emacs 21.2.  Hence, this
	file is not needed for those Emacs versions.

one-line-cookie.diff

sendmail.el
smtpmail.el

	Copies of the corresponding files from the Emacs lisp/mail/
	directory, to provide features (occasionally) needed by Gnus which
	may not be provided by the versions of these files in older Emacs
	distributions.

ssl.el

ucs-tables.el

	This file provides improved Unicode functionality.  It defines
	functions unify-8859-on-encoding-mode and
	unify-8859-on-decoding-mode which unify the Latin-N charsets.
	Without unify-8859-on-encoding-mode, composing a Latin-9 reply
	to a Latin-1 posting, say, will produce a multipart posting (a
	Latin-1 part and a Latin-9 part), or perhaps UTF-8.  With
	unify-8859-on-encoding-mode, the outgoing posting can be all
	Latin-1 or all Latin-9 in most cases.

	It is harmless to turn on unify-8859-on-encoding-mode, but
	unify-8859-on-decoding-mode may unexpectedly change files in
	certain situations.  (If the file contains different Latin-N
	charsets which should not be unified.)

	This is part of Emacs 21.3 and later, which also turns on
	unify-8859-on-encoding-mode by default.

vcard.el

xml.el

	This is used for parsing RSS feeds.  Part of Emacs 21.3 and later.
	Note that the version of this file in the Gnus contrib/ directory is
	out of date with respect to the version in the Emacs tree.
