-*- Mode: Text -*-

WELCOME TO ILISP.


FIRST INSTALLATION STEP: UNPACKING AND COMPILING.

Copy the ILISP distribution archive, e.g. ilisp-x.y.z.tar.gz, to the
location where you would like to install it. Next extract the archive (you
may need root privileges to perform these operations):

% gzip -dc ilisp-x.y.z.tar.gz | tar xf -

or:

% unzip ilisp-x.y.z.zip

Some configuration needs to be done before compiling the Emacs Lisp files
that comprise ILISP.  Start with the Makefile file, in the section after
the comment Various variables (you can safely ignore the variables for
configuring packaging and distribution, which are intended for
maintainers).

First, set the EMACS variable to be the pathname of the Emacs you will
be using ILISP with.  This is the Emacs that will be used to compile
ILISP with.  Be sure to set `LN' to the name of your operating
system's command for creating symbolic filesystem links, ESPECIALLY IF
YOU ARE A WINDOWS USER.

If your Emacs supports the `easymenu' package, it is possible to make ILISP
add to Lisp mode buffers and buffers with inferior Lisp processes, or to
Scheme mode buffers and buffers with inferior Scheme processes, an Ilisp
menu with all available commands.  To enable this feature, set to T the
variable ILISP-*ENABLE-CL-EASY-MENU-P* in `ilisp-def.el' for the Common
Lisp dialects, and ILISP-*ENABLE-SCHEME-EASY-MENU-P* for Scheme dialects.
Setting these variables also causes the default Lisp menu to be removed
before displaying the Ilisp one.

See the next section for additional configuration options and known
problems for specific Lisp dialects.

Run `make' or `make compile' to build ILISP from source.  Ignore any
compilation warnings unless they result in ILISP not compiling completely.

To activate ILISP you should add appropriate Emacs Lisp forms to your
`.emacs' or to the system-wide `default.el' file, depending on who will be
using ILISP.  These forms take care of starting it whenever you access a
Lisp file or run an inferior Lisp process.  You can copy relevant portions
of the sample file `ilisp.emacs', which also shows how to customize some
ILISP features.

You should add the directory where all of the ILISP Emacs Lisp files reside
to your load-path.  There is an example of this in `ilisp.emacs'.

As an alternative you could set up a `.ilisp' which contains the
appropriate portions of `ilisp.emacs', in order to avoid cluttering too
much `.emacs' or `default.el'.

The first time a dialect is started, the interface files will complain
about not being compiled, just ignore the message.  Once a Lisp dialect is
started up, you should execute the command ilisp-compile-inits which will
compile the `*.lisp' files and write them to the same directory as the
ilisp files.

The binary files should have a unique extension for each different
combination of architecture and Lisp dialect.  You will need to change
ILISP-INIT-BINARY-EXTENSION and ILISP-INIT-BINARY-COMMAND to get additional
extensions.  The binary for each different architecture should be
different.  If you want to build the interface files into a Lisp world, you
will also need to set ILISP-LOAD-INITS to NIL in the same place that you
change ILISP-PROGRAM to load the Lisp world.

There is an ILISP-SITE-HOOK for initializing site specific stuff like
program locations when ILISP is first loaded.  You may want to define
appropriate autoloads in your system Emacs start up file.

Example site init:

;;; CMU site
(setq ilisp-site-hook
      '(lambda ()
        (setq ilisp-motd "CMU ILISP V%s")
        (setq expand-symlinks-rfs-exists t)
        (setq allegro-program "/usr/local/acl5/lisp")
        (setq lucid-program "/usr/misc/.lucid/bin/lisp")))

Kent Pitman and Xanalys Inc. have made publicly available on the Web the
Common Lisp HyperSpec, an HTML version of the full text of the ANSI Common
Lisp specification.  Daniel Barlow, Stephen Carney and Erik Naggum
independently developed Emacs Lisp packages for looking up Lisp symbols in
the HyperSpec and displaying the relevant sections with a Web browser.
ILISP includes all of them in the `extra' directory of the distribution
tree. By default ILISP uses Naggum's package.  If you want to use one of
the others, see the comments at the beginning of the corresponding files.

The `ilisp.emacs' file provides sample instructions for making Naggum's
package access a local copy of the HyperSpec. Since the package relies on
the `browse-url' Emacs package, make sure that the latter is properly
configured.

Digital Press has made publicly available online, as a service to the Lisp
community, the full text of the book ``Common Lisp, The Language'' (by Guy
L. Steele Jr., 2nd edition, Digital Press, 1990, ISBN 1-55558-041-6;
a.k.a. ``CLtL2'') in a number of formats, including HTML.  ILISP provides
support, contributed by Utz-Uwe Haus, for looking up Lisp symbols in the
HTML version of the book and displaying the relevant sections with a Web
browser.  See the file `extra/cltl2.el' for more information on configuring
this feature.

The `ilisp.emacs' file provides sample instructions for making ILISP's
CLtL2 support access a local copy of the book.  What has been said above
about `browse-url' configuration also applies to CLtL2 lookup.

Note that, althouth Steele's book is a well written and useful resource,
it covers the Common Lisp language in the state it was a few years
before ANSI standardization.  If you need an accurate description of
ANSI Common Lisp, see the above mentioned HyperSpec instead.

Previous versions of ILISP provided commands for accessing the online
Common Lisp documentation shipped with Franz Inc.'s Allegro CL product
(`fi:clman' module). The public availability of the HyperSpec, and the
inclusion since version 5.9 of ILISP of the `hyperspec' packages, make
access to the Franz documentation no longer necessary. So by default ILISP
does not load the `fi:clman' module, but if you still want to use its
commands set the ILISP-*USE-FI-CLMAN-INTERFACE-P* to T in `ilisp-def.el'.

The ILISP documentation consists of a user manual and a reference card (the
latter may not be up to date).  Both of them are in the `docs' directory of
the distribution tree.

The generation of GNU Info, DVI, PostScript and HTML versions of the
documentation from the Texinfo and TeX source is controlled by the
`Makefile' in the `docs' directory.  Run `make docs' or `make' to generate
all of the formats.  If you are interested in only some of them then issue
the appropriate command: `make info' for GNU Info, `make dvi' for DVI,
`make ps' for PostScript and `make html' for HTML.  To remove the
intermediate files produced during the generation of DVI output you can run
`make tmpclean'.  Note that some of the output formats may not be supported
for certain documents.

The ILISP reference card is available as a TeX source file.  Check the
comments at the beginning of the file if you need to generate a version
with a different number of columns (the default is 3).


SECOND INSTALLATION STEP: DIALECT REQUIREMENTS.

ILISP assumes a minimum of CLtL2 compliance. This requirements
immediately clashes with the problems of some KCL-derivativs,
including GCL.  Here is a list of known problems for several CL
implementations (we do not know whether there are problems with
Scheme's - please let us know).

o All Common Lisp dialects

	Be sure that the variables:

	ilisp-binary-extension
	ilisp-init-binary-extension
	ilisp-binary-command

	Have the appropriate value.  Older versions of ILISP (< 5.8)
	assumed a single CL installation and suggested a change to the
	hook 'ilisp-site-hook' in the 'ilisp.emacs' file.

	This should not be so anymore.


o KCL, AKCL, Ibuki, GCL, and ECL

        Be sure to get the latest CVS version of ECL.

	- DEFPACKAGE
	  You need to have your system configured with a
	  DEFPACKAGE. You can either generate an image which contains
	  it or you can arrange the init file to load it for you.

	  You can find a DEFPACKAGE in the AI.Repository of CMU.

	  If you do not want - for mysterious reasons - DEFPACKAGE in
          your GCL, you can manually edit the files 'ilisp-pkg.lisp'
          and 'cl-ilisp.lisp' at the DEFPACKAGE and EXPORT forms.

	- LOOP
	  Most likely the DEFPACKAGE will require a full fledged LOOP.
	  The same instructions apply.


o CMUCL

	If you are interested in maintaining CMU CL or compiling it from
	source try to set the variables:

	cmulisp-source-directory-regexp
	cmulisp-local-source-directory

	to sensible values, e.g. set 'cmulisp-local-source-directory'
	to "target:". Refer to CMUCL documentation for an explanation
	of this setting.


o Xanalys LispWorks (formerly Harlequin LispWorks)

        On Windows and Linux, the LispWorks executable should be resaved
        without the GUI.  In addition, on Windows it MUST be resaved as a
        console application to ensure correct interaction with Emacs shell
        buffers.  Create a script (let's call it `console.lisp') including
        the following:

          (load-all-patches)
          (save-image "lw42-console" :console t :environment nil)
          (quit)

        and run it using:

          <dir>/lispworks-4200 -init <dir>/console.lisp

        When the `lw42-console' image has been created, it can be used as
        the value of the `lispworks-program' variable in ILISP.

        If you are using LispWorks 4.1 with Emacs 20.4 or higher on
        Windows, then ensure you're at patch level 4.1.20. This patch
        bundle includes patches (LSC #7270, LSC #7727 and LSC #7291)
        that make it work with ILISP.  For more information check the
        README file which comes with the bundle.

        LispWorks users who wish to use the CAPI (LispWorks GUI toolkit)
        via ILISP can create a suitable image with this script (call it
        'console-capi.lisp'):

          (in-package "CL-USER")
          (load-all-patches)
          (compile (defun my-restart () 
                     #+Unix
                     (capi:ensure-motif-libraries)
                     (mp:initialize-multiprocessing)))
          (save-image "lw-ilisp-capi" :restart-function 'my-restart 
                                      :environment nil
                                      #+Win32 :console #+Win32 t)
          (quit)

        This is because the CAPI requires multiprocessing, and on some Unix
        platforms the GUI libraries that CAPI uses are normally loaded on
        startup of the IDE, which we're bypassing with :environment nil for
        ILISP.


o Lucid

	No known extra installation glitches


o Allegro

	No known extra installation glitches


o CLISP

        (The list below was provided by Valentino Kyriakides)

        The following lists some unusual ILISP behaviour related to CLISP.
        Some of these are of general interest, and should hopefully be
        fixed in an upcomming ILISP distribution. Most of these points were
        reported by Bruno Haible.

        - On startup, ILISP presents a Lisp prompt and shortly afterwards
          another Lisp prompt. This is somehow confusing.

        - While prompted, a user can backspace over the prompt, or can move
          the cursor down to inexistent lines, thus making the buffer look
          bad.

        - The history mode is unfortunately circular, which means that
          after M-p M-n you don't get back your original empty line. Also,
          a two- character input like "()" doesn't appear in the history.

        - CLISP does not know that once it received a form for evaluation
          the cursor is in column 0. Therefore (format t "~&") will output
          a blank line. This results in too many blank lines.

        - The default completion character for clisp (Tab) does not work.
          Instead there are two different completion characters, with two
          other keybindings.

        - The Lisp code invisibly loaded into clisp is interpreted. Since
          it is not user-visible, it could as well be compiled, for speed.

        - In a CLISP debugger loop typing "abort" often throws you into the
          next deeper debugging level, instead of leaving the actual
          one. So you often have to retype "abort" x-times to get it work.

        - When the ILISP/CLISP interaction hangs (blocks), you have to type
          C-g to abort your last command, in order get the minibuffer work
          again. After this you have to do a "M-x panic-lisp" to reassign
          the ILISP/CLISP interaction.


Scheme->C

        - To get Scheme->C to work under ILISP it may be necessary to
          create a custom executable with the following C foreign function:

            #include <stdio.h>
            void nobuff(){setbuf(stdout, (char*)0);}

            (define-c-external (nobuff) void "nobuff")
            (nobuff)


TIPS

o Microsoft Windows

        You may check the document "Setting up an IDE with Emacs on
        Windows", by Bill Clementson, which is part of the Common Lisp
        Cookbook Project:

          http://cl-cookbook.sourceforge.net/windows.html

        It is a tutorial on setting up ILISP with CLISP, Corman Lisp
        and LispWorks under Windows.

o Enlightment window manager under Gnome

        If ILISP popup windows unexpectedly keep the input focus, in the
        Enlightment Configuration Editor choose the "Beahvior" item and
        toggle off all the "[...] get keyboard focus" items.

